THIS FILM IS FICTION.
ARE HAPPENING DO NOT DESCRIBE -
REAL PLACES. REAL CHARACTERS.
LANGUAGES. COSTUMES. ETC.
Yes.
- Great!
- Well done!
Yes.
Your turn.
- About.
- Go ahead.
Yes!
Fola. leave it!
Good!
I told you!
PLAYER 1: 15 3
PLAYER 2: 30 3
A win for team two.
Thank you.
- We won!
- Don't worry.
We will win next time.
- Next time. then.
- Tade. is that you?
- Sweetheart.
- Hardly.
- Really?
- We're going to win.
Leave them alone.
Keep up the good work! That's it!
This is how the winners dance.
The winners are here!
I see.
What is it now?
Fola. why the long face?
Why are you sulking?
Is it because you lost?
Listen.
In life. sometimes you win and sometimes you lose.
Today you lost. tomorrow you might win.
The most important thing is that we win in love.
Or what?
Okay. Mom.
Smile now.
Is that all you can shed?
- Thank you. darling.
- Thank you.
You are love.
Thank you.
- God created us to love.
- True.
You I will always call my love.
for you are a gift from God.
- Thank you.
- Thank you. dear.
- Thank you very much.
- Thank you.
- Yes.
- So.
- Let's not worry about losing.
- Yes.
We will soon know the winner.
- Which one?
- Let's dance.
Stop it already.
- Stop.
- I'm teaching you...
- to dance.
- You know.
- that I can beat you.
- Let's see.
- Come on. Fola.
Tade. this time.
- Swing your hips.
- Okay.
That's what I taught you.
Let's dance.
- You can't tear down my house!
- Look!
Break it down!
Break it all up! Scrap all that!
Scatter to the ground.
And you will be destroyed with it.
You can't tear down my house!
Break it down!
Don't tear down my house.
Buy cheese!
Come on out.
You are confused. young man.
A crowd that wants to party
If we...
Don't you know you're at Otunba's house?
What's wrong with you?
Here you come -
and drive like a madman.
He is mentally ill.
- Chief?
- Yes?
- I'm here to see you.
- What is it?
I hear you're tearing down houses.
Oh. you mean? That's what we do.
He is confused.
- He doesn't know how to express himself.
- And you enjoy it.
When you sell these countries.
would you sell land in heaven?
- Your father.
- Did you destroy my father's house?
The house I worked so hard to build?
Are you now arguing.
you don't know.
when I got the land and paid for it?
We don't know.
The authorities are intervening.
You're not going to be OK.
So be it.
- So be it.
- It's not going to be okay.
- So be it!
- For whom -
- you talk like that?
- No problem.
I ask. We are the chiefs of Ilara.
- The chiefs of Ilaras are like kings.
- True.
- Even higher-ranking ones!
- You. your parents.
- and those countries. Who owns them?
- We do.
You would be grateful.
that you were not inside the house.
when it was demolished.
Would you have done so?
- Absolutely.
- You wouldn't dare.
Let him act like he's bigger than you...
than it is. Let me tell you.
They want you to die.
If you wish. you can
go to the police to complain.
- You'll get out of breath.
- Yes.
Can I get out of my life?
- You will die.
- Yes.
- Am I dead?
- You're going to die.
You've been doing this long enough.
That's enough.
- You can't help it.
- Do you want to beat him?
You've got away with it...
long enough.
Believe me when I say.
You can't help it.
We shall see!
- We shall see!
- You can't!
- He's ruining the car.
Do you want to?
-Check it out!
This means war.
Let me tell you...
Thank you.
- I am grateful.
- Good luck.
Thank you.
All the best.
Yes.
Blessing.
You get to live and enjoy the place.
- Amen.
- Lucky you.
Ajayi. my friend.
I greet you.
Friend. how are you?
Thank God.
You are well. aren't you?
Oyedeji.
Wait a minute.
is someone else building
a house in front of my eyes?
Impossible. I can't bear to watch that.
- Agunbiade?
- Yes?
Agunbiade.
Why are you being hard on yourself?
Will suicide solve anything?
Living long is good.
Not like this! Not like this. the object of ridicule.
Let me go.
Where are you going? Give me this.
- Ajayi. please.
- Anna.
The poison.
that your father was going to drink.
He didn't listen to me.
Dad. is that true?
Do you want to kill yourself for a house?
God will give you another house.
Father. let's leave this in God's hands.
What do you mean?
Can't you hear Moren?
I'll make sure they still get paid.
I met them.
and I said they'll pay.
In Lagos I go straight away
to see my lawyer.
You should tell us
before you do anything like that.
Oyewale.
they don't work.
but they take from others just like that.
So we destroy them.
Have you heard of untouchables?
They are like that.
They are like their fathers.
When it comes to money.
they don't even recognise their own son.
Chief Otun made a point the other day.
This land belongs to God -
and those who know its history.
Your ancestors should have told you.
that the land...
does not belong to the Ogunladen family.
- Chief.
- Yes?
You just want to steal again.
You have taken land from us
piece by piece...
on questionable grounds.
You will not take this land in my lifetime.
You will not take this in my lifetime.
I'll send Ogun after you!
Ogun!
First of the gods. Lord of the earth!
- The owner of the water...
- Ogunlana.
- Dad.
- Let's resolve this in moderation.
Dad. we can't.
Usutan Ogunin
against the greedy chiefs.
Oh. Ogun!
Wipe them off the face of the earth!
Ogun...
- You killed him!
- My son.
God.
- you fought for us.
- Why are we chiefs?
We drink wine and have dinner
with the leaders.
He does what we want.
before we even ask.
Shall we ask the Ogun to destroy them?
Let them be.
They will learn from this.
But still...
No. Let's take care of your father.
Or if you're ready.
maybe you can take her with you.
Dad.
would you come to Lagos with us?
En.
Stop crying.
- They will not survive this.
- I heard you.
Okay.
- Calm your mind.
- Okay.
God still has something for you.
Okay.
Calm your mind.
Stop crying.
Okay.
Yes. I'm already sick of everything.
In a village with laws.
Are we just going to watch from the sidelines?
That's what hurts me the most.
The ones I confided in.
told me only to trust God.
I heard that the chiefs have the power
and they enjoy the suffering of others.
- Really?
- Yes.
Just destroy someone else's house.
- to sell the land.
- Very devious.
I am so sad.
I know.
We were not informed of anything.
We must not just keep silent.
Yes.
You have no money
But you say the idea is
Well to hell with that idea
You lovers of pleasure
Enjoy yourselves
We are the best of the best. so
- Listen.
- I said it already
- Listen. you can eat...
- We are the best of the best
- ...whatever you want.
- You know what?
- Well?
I will spoil you with pleasures.
This is just the beginning.
- Yes.
- Listen.
I understand what you are saying.
Yes.
You can predict tomorrow -
- today.
- Yes.
We understand.
what wonders you will do as King.
No one will stop you.
This is just the beginning!
I will spoil you with pleasures.
My Lord. I understand.
- My Lord.
- Enjoy.
You know you'll be spending the night here.
No one is going home today.
- Really?
- Yes.
We were not prepared.
I have prepared the beds and everything for you.
The King asked me to sing
We greet you
Greetings. Otun and Olukosi
Greetings. Akin and Iyalode
Here are the blankets.
to keep you warm.
I have the power to do what I want...
We will stay warm. but what about Iyalode?
Wasn't he cold?
I am good to be.
Don't worry. I'm fine.
- Mine is good.
- Is that what you're supposed to say?
Don't bother.
We enjoy life to the full
What can you achieve by talking?
He knows nothing
We salute you
When I ascend to my father's throne.
you can enjoy life to the full.
I will spoil you with pleasures.
I will take care of you.
until you die.
Didn't you already?
I indulge so.
you'll be ashamed.
I greet you on the right.
I greet you on the left.
Ifa has spoken.
Ifa said that the Adekogbe lineage...
we need to choose a new onilara.
- Did Ifa say that?
- Yes. he did.
But...
What do you want to say?
What else?
Me? How?
Me. Ilaran onilara?
What makes you think.
that I would be the onilara of Ilara?
Find someone you know.
Choose from another family.
Leave me alone.
It's not my place.
It's true.
you do not belong in front of our kind.
Right.
Yes. we talked to the others...
before we came here.
It's your turn.
because you are the right age.
Listen up. Thank you.
I heard your request.
but I am not interested.
I will support anyone in my family to be king.
but me?
No way. Forget it.
I am happy like this.
- Leave me alone.
- Your Highness. no.
Who is your highness?
Don't call me that. I don't like it.
Let me address you like this.
so that you get used to it.
Make no mistake.
The whole family supports this.
You just have to agree.
I don't want it.
I said I didn't like it.
Even my son
must never aspire to be king.
That's what we always say.
You young people sit at home.
while the old people lead.
and then you complain about things.
We give power to the young.
and it still doesn't seem to work.
Let me tell you this.
If we miss this opportunity...
Are you listening?
If our family misses this opportunity...
this time.
we will hear more about this later.
I am not interested!
He said he was just getting started.
What is this?
For the same reason?
This is too much.
Our future king!
I said.
don't call me
a future king.
The kind of people...
will never be kings.
It's just a saying.
You will be king.
So be it.
You will be king
So be it
Thank you. I am grateful.
Look at these cows.
- Yes.
- These are for you.
Yes. it is.
I don't want to hear that food...
or there is not enough meat that day.
That's why I got these.
- Cows?
- Yes.
- What for?
- For the coronation.
- Yes.
- Of course.
Listen. ma'am. Shall I tell you the truth?
There are a lot of visitors.
There will be more than 100 kings.
Do you see? He knows what he's doing.
I don't want to celebrate only in the palace.
I want chiefs.
with whom I fought.
will also take part in the festivities.
- He is wise.
- Listen.
If any of you chiefs...
wants live music -
to liven up the festive occasion.
I'll buy.
- Adeoye offers.
- I invite two bands.
- I can do it. don't worry.
- Did you hear that?
If we can't
The situation is getting out of hand
You can
The Crown accepts
- My Lord!
- Yes?
A great man.
Well done.
- You pureblood.
- I am.
Good man.
-Yes.
He who never forgets his friends.
Adeoye is king.
- The father is king too.
- I am a king.
Here are the King's fathers and mother.
My Lord.
I did not come empty-handed.
Wait.
Adeoye!
Let's eat
Goodbye!
Dear. under no circumstances
you cannot refuse the offer.
Your family will support it.
It's your birthright.
This does not involve
any struggle or competition.
Don't refuse the offer.
Sweetheart.
Let me explain.
Right now. it's just us.
you. the kids and me.
When I become king.
I will be the father of all.
I no longer have time for my family.
It doesn't happen that way. I'll stay by your side.
Every moment.
- Honey!
- Let me explain.
When you are weak and tired.
you can always lean on my shoulder.
And as for the children.
our love for them will only grow.
You will always be their beloved father.
The one who cares and cares.
Answer the call. my husband.
I'll be fine. I promise. I'll be fine.
You. who of me
paid for my family. I worship you.
Your Highness.
Please.
- How was your trip?
- Come on.
- Act like a king
- Welcome to.
Dance the dance of the king
Act like a king
Dance the king's dance
Welcome!
Here we go.
A beloved king.
You come from greatness
Child of gratitude. our child
Spread the money. child of wealth
Thank you
- Welcome to.
- Welcome!
ADEKOGBEN FAMILY HOUSE
Welcome!
Aganju. you are the first god being.
to accept a cock chick.
If we are not mistaken.
and Adedunjoye is our king.
this is the rooster boy you asked me to give you.
Take it!
Aganju. you did it.
Heads.
we came to tell you that we're going to start...
Adedunjoye coronation rites
tomorrow morning.
so that he can rise
to the throne of his ancestor.
- Time is no longer on our side.
- What do you mean?
Everyone has their responsibilities.
We too have enough...
before we make you a casserole.
Allow us.
- Yes.
- Otun. why are you holding us back?
You probably remember.
that for over three years now...
we've been thinking about who will be king.
Haven't you had enough already?
The crown shall be the crown of the lara.
What does this mean?
Are we not performing...
the necessary rituals.
because you already want to crown a king?
What are you belching?
Are we not performing our rituals?
Why are you belching like a pig?
Be careful. Don't tease me.
Don't you know what my belch means?
That means a lot.
You interpret it in your own way.
Only I know the reason for my roar.
I am happy.
I'm sorry. because we're about to have a new king.
Finally. we have a king.
- That's why I grunted.
- Who's not happy with the king?
- I don't understand.
- Listen...
Is...
- Yes?
- Don't argue with each other.
Ifa spoke.
and you chiefs did not object.
so this is what happens.
Really? Because here
there seems to be a difference of opinion.
There is nothing more to say.
- So it's all good.
- Yes. thank you.
We are novices
Here we are
Let us in
The novices are here
When the light comes in.
the darkness recedes.
A village without a leader lives in darkness.
A village with a cruel leader.
also lives in darkness.
The earth has been chosen for us by a divine being.
and we have found a good man.
Your Highness. enlighten the village.
Put it there.
Enlighten. enlighten
The king has enlightened his country
Enlighten
Your Highness.
here's the stick.
A rod that touches the heavens and the earth.
Sometimes it's hot. sometimes it's cold.
That's the seventh deity of the village of Ilara.
The last thing you do is step into a place.
where the stick is held. When you see it.
you will never again
may return to see it.
May the rod bless you.
Let them never feel its wrath.
So be it.
Your Highness. this is Aganju.
Start here.
Don't misunderstand.
A leader saves everyone.
Give the kola nut to Sango.
Aganju only accepts cockroach
and it calms the village.
Help the owners of the land -
- to lead you.
- So be it.
May Aganju help you to lead.
Your Excellencies. step forward.
Your Highness.
this is Ayantoye.
Ilara's first drummer.
May God make him
to drum for you.
Your Excellency. this is the speaker.
He was the first.
to praise King Adekogbe.
May he praise you.
This is Okoto's first son.
He was the first dancer in the village of Ilara.
May God make him dance for you.
Let your dance be a dance of honour.
So be it.
Your Highness.
do you see that room?
In that room. Adekogbe slept...
before he became king of Ilaria.
From then on. everyone.
who ascends to the throne of Ilaras.
will sleep there.
You must never talk about that room.
What you see in that room.
it stays in that room.
Lie on your right side.
and do not change position.
It is forbidden to lie on your left side.
Your Highness. sleep well.
- You elders...
- No.
You must do this alone!
No one will come with you.
nobody knows what's going on out there.
This is your challenge.
No one will come with you.
no one is witness to what is happening.
no one will come with you.
You will face it alone!
No one will come with you.
This is your challenge.
no one is witness to what is happening.
no one will come with you.
Step out of what?
- He will not come out alive.
- Yes.
When you hear of a death.
- it's about him.
- He's going to die there.
- There is no...
- Wait a minute.
Are you saying that he will die before
the rituals are completed?
- Yes!
Don't worry about it!
Calm your mind.
You'll see what happens.
Chiefs. let us bow to the King.
Your Highness.
WHEN SHOOTING A FILM
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED.
Subtitles by Sanni Heininen